---
title: "Changelog for Kubernetes 1.30"
description: "Changelog for Kubernetes 1.30"
alwaysopen: true
---

## Versions

The deployed Kubernetes version varies based on when your cluster is deployed. We try deploying cluster using the latest patch release of Kubernetes.

Current release is Kubernetes 1.30.1

## Major changes

  * New default storageclass `v2-1k`
  * New clusters will only have v2 storage classes available.
  * `nodelocaldns` will be removed for all clusters where it's still deployed. This change affects only clusters created prior to Kubernetes 1.26, as the feature was deprecated in that version.
  * Clusters created before Kubernetes 1.26 will have their public domains removed. In Kubernetes 1.26, we migrated to using a LoadBalancer and its IP instead. If you are using an old kubeconfig with an active domain, please fetch a new one.

### APIs removed in Kubernetes 1.32

More details can be found in [Kubernetes official documentation.](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-32)

  * Flow control `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3`. The replacement `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.29
  * The 4k, 8k, 16k, and v1-dynamic-40 storage classes will be removed. Please migrate to the v2 storage classes, which have been available since Kubernetes 1.26 and have been the default since Kubernetes 1.30.

### Other noteworthy deprecations

Kubernetes beta topology labels on nodes are deprecated and will be removed in a future release. You can follow the list below to see which labels are being replaced:

> **Please note:** The following changes does not have a set Kubernetes release. However, the replacement labels are already implemented.

  * `beta.kubernetes.io/instance-type` -> `node.kubernetes.io/instance-type`
  * `beta.kubernetes.io/arch` -> `kubernetes.io/arch`
  * `beta.kubernetes.io/os` -> `kubernetes.io/os`
  * `failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/region` -> `topology.kubernetes.io/region`
  * `failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone` -> `topology.kubernetes.io/zone`

## Is downtime expected

The cluster is expected to be up and running during the upgrade however pods will restart when being migrated to a new node.

## Known issues

### Custom node taints and labels lost during upgrade

All custom taints and labels on worker and control-plane nodes are lost during upgrade.

### Snapshots are not working

There is currently a limitation in the snapshot controller not making it topology aware.
