---
title: "Changelog for Kubernetes 1.19"
description: "Changelog for Kubernetes 1.19"
alwaysopen: true
---

## Versions

* Kubernetes 1.19.7
* Nginx-ingress: 0.43.0
* Certmanager: 1.2.0

## Major changes

* New security groups are implemented where you can store all youre firewall rules. The new security groups will be persistent between upgrades and called `CLUSTERNAME-k8s-worker-customer` and `CLUSTERNAME-k8s-master-customer` (CLUSTERNAME will be replaced with actual cluster name).
  With this change we will remove our previous default firewall rules that allowed public traffic to the Kubernetes cluster, this includes the following services:
	- Master API (port 6443)
	- Ingress (port 80 & 443)
	- Nodeports (ports 30000 to 32676) 
  
  </br>
  If you currently have any of the mentioned ports open you either need to add them to the new security groups (created during the upgrade) or mention this during the planning discussion and we will assist you with this. 
  Please be aware that any rules added to the new security groups is not managed by us and you are responsible for them being up to date.

## Deprecations

* Ingress api `extensions/v1beta1` will be removed in kubernetes 1.22
* RBAC api `rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1alpha1` and `rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1beta1` will be removed in kubernetes 1.20. The apis are replaced with `rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1`.
* The node label `beta.kubernetes.io/instance-type` will be rmeoved in an uppcomig release. Use `node.kubernetes.io/instance-type` instead.
* Certmanager api `v1alpha2`, `v1alpha3` and `v1beta1` will be removed in a future release. We strongly recommend that you upgrade to the new `v1` api

## Is downtime expected

The upgrade drains (moving all workload from) one node at the time, patches that node and brings in back in the cluster. First after all deployments and statefulsets are running again we will continue on with the next node.

## Known issues

### Custom node taints and labels lost during upgrade

All custom taints and labels on nodes are lost during upgrade.

### Custom security groups will be lost during upgrade

All custom security groups bound inside openstack will be detached during upgrade.

### Snapshots is not working

There is currently a limitation in the snapshot controller not making it topology aware.

