---
title: "Changelog for Kubernetes 1.27"
description: "Changelog for Kubernetes 1.27"
alwaysopen: true
---

## Versions

The deployed Kubernetes version varies based on when your cluster is deployed. We try deploying cluster using the latest patch release of Kubernetes.

Current release is Kubernetes 1.27.3

## Major changes
  * CSIStorageCapacity `storage.k8s.io/v1beta1` removed. The replacement `storage.k8s.io/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.24

### APIs removed in Kubernetes 1.29

More details can be found in [Kubernetes official documentation.](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29)

  * Flow control `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta2`. The replacement `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.26

### Other noteworthy deprecations

Kubernetes beta topology labels on nodes are deprecated and will be removed in a future release. You can follow the list below to see which labels are being replaced:

> **Please note:** The following changes does not have a set Kubernetes release. However, the replacement labels are already implemented.

  * `beta.kubernetes.io/instance-type` -> `node.kubernetes.io/instance-type`
  * `beta.kubernetes.io/arch` -> `kubernetes.io/arch`
  * `beta.kubernetes.io/os` -> `kubernetes.io/os`
  * `failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/region` -> `topology.kubernetes.io/region`
  * `failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone` -> `topology.kubernetes.io/zone`

## Is downtime expected

The cluster is expected to be up and running during the upgrade however pods will restart when being migrated to a new node.

## Known issues

### Custom node taints and labels lost during upgrade

All custom taints and labels on worker and control-plane nodes are lost during upgrade.

### Snapshots are not working

There is currently a limitation in the snapshot controller not making it topology aware.
