---
title: "Changelog for Kubernetes 1.21"
description: "Changelog for Kubernetes 1.21"
alwaysopen: true
---

## Versions

* Kubernetes 1.21.5
* Nginx-ingress: 1.0.1
* Certmanager: 1.5.3

## Major changes


* Load Balancers are by default allowed to talk to all tcp ports on worker nodes.

## New Kubernetes features:

* The ability to create immutable [secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#secret-immutable) and [configmaps.](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/#configmap-immutable)
* Cronjobs are now stable and the new API `batch/v1` is implemented.
* Graceful node shutdown, when shutting worker nodes this is detected by Kubernetes and pods will be evicted.

## Deprecations

Note all deprecations will be removed in a future Kuberntes release, this does not mean you need to perform any changes now however we recommend you to start migration your applications to avoid trouble in future releases.

### APIs removed in Kubernetes 1.22

A guide on how to migrate from affected APIs [can be found in the kubernetes upstream documetnation.](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-22)

  * Ingress `extensions/v1beta1` and `networking.k8s.io/v1beta1`
  * ValidatingWebhookConfiguration and MutatingWebhookConfiguration `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1`
  * CustomResourceDefinition `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1`
  * CertificateSigningRequest `certificates.k8s.io/v1beta1`
  * APIService `apiregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1`
  * TokenReview `authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1`
  * Lease `coordination.k8s.io/v1beta1`
  * SubjectAccessReview, LocalSubjectAccessReview and SelfSubjectAccessReview `authorization.k8s.io/v1beta1`
  * Certmanager api `v1alpha2`, `v1alpha3` and `v1beta1`

### Other noteworthy deprecations

Kubernetes beta topology labels on nodes are deprecated and will be removed in a future release, follow the list below to see what labels are being replaced:

> **Please note:** the following change does not have a set Kubernetes release when being removed however the replacement labels are already implemented. 

  * `beta.kubernetes.io/instance-type` -> `node.kubernetes.io/instance-type`
  * `beta.kubernetes.io/arch` -> `kubernetes.io/arch`
  * `beta.kubernetes.io/os` -> `kubernetes.io/os`
  * `failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/region` -> `topology.kubernetes.io/region`
  * `failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone` -> `topology.kubernetes.io/zone`


### APIs removed in Kubernetes 1.25

more detail can be found [in Kubernetes official documentation.](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-25)

  * Pod Security Policies will be removed in Kubernetes 1.25.
  * CronJob `batch/v1beta1`, the new API `batch/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.21 (this is a drop in replacement)
  * EndpointSlice `discovery.k8s.io/v1beta1`, the new API `discovery.k8s.io/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.21
  * Event `events.k8s.io/v1beta1`, the new API `events.k8s.io/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.19
  * PodDisruptionBudget `policy/v1beta1`, the new API `policy/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.21
  * RuntimeClass `node.k8s.io/v1beta1`, the new API `node.k8s.io/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.20

## Is downtime expected

The upgrade drains (moving all workload from) one node at the time, patches that node and brings it back in the cluster. First after all deployments and statefulsets are running again we will continue on with the next node.

## Known issues

### Custom node taints and labels lost during upgrade

All custom taints and labels on nodes are lost during upgrade.

### Custom changes to non -customer security groups will be lost

All changes to security groups not suffixed with "-customer" will be lost during the upgrade

### Snapshots is not working

There is currently a limitation in the snapshot controller not making it topology aware.
