---
title: "Changelog for Kubernetes 1.23"
description: "Changelog for Kubernetes 1.23"
alwaysopen: true
---

## Versions

* Kubernetes 1.23.7
* Nginx-ingress: 1.3.0
* Certmanager: 1.9.1

## Major changes

* A new storage class `v1-dynamic-40` is introduced and set as the default storage class. [All information about this storage class can be found here.](https://docs.elastx.cloud/docs/openstack-iaas/announcement/#new-volume-type-v1-dynamic-40)
* Worker and control plane nodes now use `v1-c2-m8-d80` as their default flavor. [You can find a complete list of all available flavors here.](https://elastx.se/en/openstack/pricing)
* All nodes will be migrated to the updated flavors during the upgrade. All new flavors will have the same specification however the flavor ID will be changed. This affects customers that use the `node.kubernetes.io/instance-type` label that can be located on nodes.
* Control plane nodes will have their disk migrated from the deprecated `4k` storage class to `v1-dynamic-40`.
* We will install a new node alongside all cluster nodes this node will be used to store and process metrics. Long-term metrics will be uploaded to our object storage.

## Flavor mapping

| Old flavor | New flavor |
| ---------- | ---------- |
| v1-standard-2 | v1-c2-m8-d80 |
| v1-standard-4 | v1-c4-m16-d160 |
| v1-standard-8 | v1-c8-m32-d320 |
| v1-dedicated-8 | d1-c8-m58-d800 |
| v2-dedicated-8 | d2-c8-m120-d1.6k |

## Changes affecting new clusters:

* The storage class `4k` will no longer be set-up due to it being deprecated in Openstack. [The full announcement can be found here.](https://docs.elastx.cloud/docs/openstack-iaas/announcement/#2022-06-13-reducing-openstack-volume-price-with-up-to-63-and-increasing-performance-with-up-to-50)

## Deprecations

> Note that all deprecations will be removed in a future Kubernetes release. This does not mean you need to perform any changes right now. However, we recommend you to start migrating your applications in order to avoid issues in future releases.

* In kubernetes 1.25 the storage class `4k` will be removed from all clusters created prior to Kubernetes 1.23.

### APIs removed in Kubernetes 1.25

More details can be found in [Kubernetes official documentation.](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-25)

  * Pod Security Policies will be removed in Kubernetes 1.25
  * CronJob `batch/v1beta1`. The new API `batch/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.21 (this is a drop in replacement)
  * EndpointSlice `discovery.k8s.io/v1beta1`. The new API `discovery.k8s.io/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.21
  * Event `events.k8s.io/v1beta1`. The new API `events.k8s.io/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.19
  * PodDisruptionBudget `policy/v1beta1`. The new API `policy/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.21
  * RuntimeClass `node.k8s.io/v1beta1`. The new API `node.k8s.io/v1` was implemented in Kubernetes 1.20

### Other noteworthy deprecations

Kubernetes beta topology labels on nodes are deprecated and will be removed in a future release. You can follow the list below to see which labels are being replaced:

> **Please note:** The following changes does not have a set Kubernetes release. However, the replacement labels are already implemented.

  * `beta.kubernetes.io/instance-type` -> `node.kubernetes.io/instance-type`
  * `beta.kubernetes.io/arch` -> `kubernetes.io/arch`
  * `beta.kubernetes.io/os` -> `kubernetes.io/os`
  * `failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/region` -> `topology.kubernetes.io/region`
  * `failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone` -> `topology.kubernetes.io/zone`


## Is downtime expected

The upgrade drains (move all workload from) one node at the time, patches that node and brings it back in the cluster. First after all deployments and statefulsets are running again we will continue on with the next node.

## Known issues

### Custom node taints and labels lost during upgrade

All custom taints and labels on worker and control-plane nodes are lost during upgrade.

### Custom changes to non -customer security groups will be lost

All changes to security groups not suffixed with "-customer" will be lost during the upgrade.

### Snapshots are not working

There is currently a limitation in the snapshot controller not making it topology aware.
